# Library-Device-Checkout-System


Library Device Checkout System
The library device checkout system stores the status of every device in the library. The system can perform other operations as well, for instance, list devices by title, add new devices, edit device information, search by device name, check out devices, check in devices, and exit.
List devices by title will show all the available devices and its current status. By using this feature, users can see all item status in one screen, which unify the data and make the managing process straightforward and smooth.
Add new devices allows users to add new devices and its relevant information into the system.This feature is especially useful for librarians when new devices arrive at the library. They can use this feature to update the system, so all device status can be tracked.
Edit device information allows users to modify device information that they entered previously. This allows users to correct mistakes or update outdated information.
Search by device name allows users to search device information by device name. When the user enters the device name that exists in the system, the system will display the corresponding information of the device. Instead of searching the entire list of devices, this feature displays the information directly, which enhances the efficiency substantially.
Check out devices allows users to change the device status. If a student wants to borrow a device, he/she needs to go through the check out process. After the checkout process, the status of the device will change from “available” to “Checked Out”. This update can help the librarian to manage the device more efficiently.
Check in devices allows users to change the device status, but this feature is the opposite of check out. Instead of changing the status to checkout, it changes the status to available. For instance, when the student returns the device to the library, the device status will switch from “checkout” to “available”. This feature helps the users to manage the devices more efficiently.
Exit is the last feature on the program menu. When users choose “Exit”, the program ends. If the user wants to continue the program and use other features on the menu, they should not select this option.
The flow of the program is quite simple. When the program starts, it will display a menu. In the menu, it shows a list of items, which are the 7 items I mentioned above. Users can enter the item number, and the corresponding operation will be executed. When the selected operation is completed, users can press “Enter” to continue the program and continue the next operation.
